samples: matter: Align changes in all samples to sysbuild (#15686)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/migration_guide_2.7.rst

  * The CLI command ``fem tx_power_control <tx_power_control>`` replaces ``fem tx_gain <tx_gain>`` .
    This change applies to the sample built with the :ref:`CONFIG_RADIO_TEST_POWER_CONTROL_AUTOMATIC <CONFIG_RADIO_TEST_POWER_CONTROL_AUTOMATIC>` set to ``n``.

Matter
------

  * With the inheritance of Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild` in the |NCS|, some changes are provided to the Matter samples and applications:

>     * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_BUILD` kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA` instead to enable or disable creating the factory data set during building a Matter sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_BUILD` kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA` Kconfig option instead to enable or disable creating the factory data set during building a Matter sample.
```

>     * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_BUILD` kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA` Kconfig option instead to enable or disable creating the factory data set during building a Matter sample.

Reviewer 2: deprecated is wrong, deprecated seems like it still works, but it does not

Author: Because it still works for non-sysbuild (child images) sample variant that as far as I know must be supported. But ok, deprecated may be misleading here.

Author: I re-thinked it and "deprecated" is correct here, because in fact it still must be used for the non-sysbuild variants. I will add a one-line comment there.

>       To enable factory data support on your device you still need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA` to ``y``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      To enable factory data support on your device, you still need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA` to ``y``.
```

>       To enable factory data support on your device, you still need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA` to ``y``.

Reviewer 2: Really? A user should not have to set this, sysbuild should propagate that setting

Author: But one thing is to generate factory data, other to enable support for that in Matter sample. Sysbuild forced us to use this config but it is used only for generate factory data files. In fact sysbuild complicated our factory data.

Reviewer 2: So should the SB option being set, force set the option set in the default image?

Author: OK, so the main thing is that we used to have two configs: CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA that enables support for factory data and does not generate factory data set (users can do it using their scripts) and it was used just to enable parsing fd in the application. The second one: CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_BUILD was enabling the CMAKE script for generating factory data set. 
After moving to sysbuild only the second one became "deprecated" because you suggested creating the SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA config that only generates the factory data set. So now it is complicated, and we want to make it as easy as possible for customers and not provide many changes because they're using those mechanisms in their production. I thought that the easiest way is to inform users that CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_BUILD has been deprecated and now they must use SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA instead. But on the other hand, the SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA kconfig works only for sysbuild, so the old one must be available for non-sysbuild purposes, right? All other things are exactly the same, and they can manipulate the CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA kconfig to enable/disable fd support. 

Are you seeing a better option?

Author: I will change this kconfig to `SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_BUILD`, which describes the purpose better.

Reviewer 2: does this need updating?

Author: Right, there is no _BUILD kconfig anymore.

Author: It is correct, Users need to use `SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE` to generate factory data, but apart from that they need to use `CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA` to enable factory data support on SoC.

>     * Factory data output files are located now in the ``<application_name>/zephyr/`` within the sample build directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Factory data output files are located now in the ``<application_name>/zephyr/`` directory within the sample build directory.
```

>     * Factory data output files are located now in the ``<application_name>/zephyr/`` directory within the sample build directory.

Reviewer 2: *are now located in

Would also not put sample build directory, just build directory, because it's the same for samples and user applications

>     * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` instead to enable or disable merging the factory data hex file with the final firmware hex file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` Kconfig option instead to enable or disable merging the factory data HEX file with the final firmware HEX file.
```

>     * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` Kconfig option instead to enable or disable merging the factory data HEX file with the final firmware HEX file.

Reviewer 2: *Kconfig

>     * :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA` has been added to enable or disable generating Matter OTA package during the building process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA` Kconfig option has been added to enable or disable generating Matter OTA package during the building process.
```

>     * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` kconfig option instead to define Matter OTA output filename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` Kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` kconfig option instead to define Matter OTA output filename.
```

      To enable factory data support on your device, you still need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA` to ``y``.
    * Factory data output files are now located in the ``<application_name>/zephyr/`` directory within the build directory.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` Kconfig option is deprecated in sysbuild and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` Kconfig option instead to enable or disable merging the factory data HEX file with the final firmware HEX file.
    * :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA` Kconfig option has been added to enable or disable generating Matter OTA package during the building process.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` Kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` Kconfig option instead to define Matter OTA output filename.

  .. note::
    

>     If you want to build sample without using sysbuild you need to use the old Kconfig options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want to build a sample without using sysbuild, you need to use the old Kconfig options.
```

Reviewer 2: Not really sure why it's being documented how to build using child/parent at all, it is deprecated, it should not be used, it's included **ONLY** for customers to port their applications to sysbuild. If people want to use child/parent samples then they should stay using ncs 2.6

Reviewer 3: Most likely, because we suspect that moving to sysbuild will be such a huge hit in the face for our customers that they would like to stay with 2.6.0, but they will have to use 2.7.0 to benefit from new Matter 1.3 revision. TBH majority of developers and QA engineers currently do not know how to move around in our SDK using new approach, so I would not expect it will be easy for our customers.

Author: It must not be deprecated. @LuDuda please comment on that.

Reviewer 2: ```
CMake Deprecation Warning at /tmp/bb/nrf/cmake/partition_manager.cmake:32 (message):
  

            ---------------------------------------------------------------------
            --- WARNING: Child and parent image functionality is deprecated   ---
            --- and should be replaced with sysbuild. Child and parent image  ---
            --- support remains only to allow existing customer applications  ---
            --- to build and allow porting to sysbuild, it is no longer       ---
            --- receiving updates or new features and it will not be possible ---
            --- to build using child/parent image at all in nRF Connect SDK   ---
            --- version 2.9 onwards.                                          ---
            ---------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Reviewer 4: @nordicjm's assumption that customers do not migrate between revisions and must stay on NCS 2.6.0 is new to me, and it certainly does not reflect reality where our customers do migrate (e.g., for new Matter/Sidewalk/BLE versions, etc.). We see it also in customer surveys.

In NCS 2.7.0 and NCS 2.8.0, we need to enable our customers to use child images for their legacy out-of-tree applications. We have outlined a Matter-specific migration guide here, as we have eliminated the need to set the KConfig ROOT as previously requested. Therefore, this will require a manual migration by the customer.

Regarding the migration guide to sysbuild - we still need documentation here - so customers know how to do it. Ideally 
 I would love to have it even before the migration begins at Nordic. :)

Btw. Deprecation means that the feature will be soon removed and customers should not use it for new projects. But can keep it until is removed (3 releases by Nordic policy).

Reviewer 5: Building using child-parent images is deprecated. Any references to this method should be clearly marked as such. The remark should point users to the sysbuild migration guide. Existing documentation referring to this build method should be kept until the deprecation period is over and support for this method is removed from the build system.

      To enable factory data support on your device, you still need to set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA` to ``y``.
    * Factory data output files are now located in the ``<application_name>/zephyr/`` directory within the build directory.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` Kconfig option is deprecated in sysbuild and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` Kconfig option instead to enable or disable merging the factory data HEX file with the final firmware HEX file.
    * :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA` Kconfig option has been added to enable or disable generating Matter OTA package during the building process.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` Kconfig option is deprecated and you need to use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_OTA_IMAGE_FILE_NAME` Kconfig option instead to define Matter OTA output filename.

>     If you modify any of the factory data-related Kconfig option you need to build a Matter sample with the pristine option to clear the CMake cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you modify any of the factory data-related Kconfig options, you need to either build the sample or application with the pristine option to clear the CMake cache or clear the cache manually.
```
Feel free to leave out the manual clearing option if it was left out of the migration guide on purpose.

Author: I will leave it because somebody can for example remove the build directory manually and in this way, remove the cache.

Reviewer 2: This can actually go entirely, I tested and if these options are changed, they are picked up and a new image is generated. Must have been an issue that has been fixed sometime without being aware

Author: Ok, so I will remove the note from all places.

Author: I've removed all those lines that inform about the pristine build.

        1. Copy the content of the image configuration file :file:`prj.conf` located in the `sysbuild/<image_name>` directory (for example,  :file:`sysbuild/mcuboot`) to the :file:`prj.conf` file located in the :file:`child_image/<image_name>` directory.
        #. Copy the content of the board configuration file located in the :file:`sysbuild/<image_name>/boards` directory (for example, :file:`sysbuild/mcuboot/boards/nrf52840dk_nrf52840.conf`) to the board file located in the :file:`child_image/<image_name>/boards` directory.

>       * All Partition Manager configuration files (:file:`pm_static` files) with the suffix ``release`` has been removed from all samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * All Partition Manager configuration files (:file:`pm_static` files) with the suffix ``release`` have been removed from all samples.
```

>         Those files are redundant now, since the new build system allows to use the file without the additional suffix if you use :makevar:`FILE_SUFFIX` if it is available in the projects directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Those files are now redundant, since the new build system allows using the file without the additional suffix if you use :makevar:`FILE_SUFFIX` and it is available in the project's directory.
```

>         It means that if you add ``-DFILE_SUFFIX=release`` to the cmake arguments while building the |NCS| Matter sample for example on ``nrf52840dk/nrf52840`` target the file ``pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840.yaml`` will be used so the exact the same file ``pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840_release.yaml`` is not needed anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        For example, if you add ``-DFILE_SUFFIX=release`` to the CMake arguments while building an |NCS| Matter sample on the ``nrf52840dk/nrf52840`` target, the file :file:`pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840.yaml` will be used.
        This means that the file :file:`pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840_release.yaml` with the exact same contents is not needed anymore.
```

>         The :makevar:`CONF_FILE` is deprecated, but if you want to keep using it within your project you need to copy the content of the ``pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840.yaml`` file, create the ``pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840_release.yaml`` and paste it there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The :makevar:`CONF_FILE` argument is deprecated, but if you want to keep using it within your project, you need to create the :file:`pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840_release.yaml` file and copy the content of the :file:`pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840.yaml` file to it.
```

        1. Copy the content of the image configuration file :file:`prj.conf` located in the `sysbuild/<image_name>` directory (for example,  :file:`sysbuild/mcuboot`) to the :file:`prj.conf` file located in the :file:`child_image/<image_name>` directory.
        #. Copy the content of the board configuration file located in the :file:`sysbuild/<image_name>/boards` directory (for example, :file:`sysbuild/mcuboot/boards/nrf52840dk_nrf52840.conf`) to the board file located in the :file:`child_image/<image_name>/boards` directory.

      * All Partition Manager configuration files (:file:`pm_static` files) with the suffix ``release`` have been removed from all samples.
        Those files are now redundant, since the new build system allows using the file without the additional suffix if you use :makevar:`FILE_SUFFIX` and it is available in the project's directory.

>         For example, if you add ``-DFILE_SUFFIX=release`` to the CMake arguments while building an |NCS| Matter sample on the ``nrf52840dk/nrf52840`` target, the file :file:`pm_static_nrf52840dk_nrf52840.yaml` will be used.

Reviewer 2: *will be used as a fallback
